_docs/4-kubernetes/0-intro.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Introduction
permalink: /docs/kubernetes-integration-intro.html
redirect_from: /docs/kubernetes-integration/
category: Kubernetes Integration
order: 0
---


When deployed on [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io), Amalgam8 provides a near native experience
 by reusing native Kubernetes tools and fucntions to run and manage its control plane components.
 The [Service registration and discovery](/docs/control-plane-registry.html) functionality leverages Kubernetes
 built in kubernetes service registry and discovery, and the [Route Controller](/docs/control-plane-controller.html) uses
 Kubernetes [Third Party Resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/thirdpartyresources/)
 to store routing rules, thus enabling familiar access using `kubectl` command line.

*__Before__* beginning working through the examples and demos, pelase confirm all container images for the control plane,
 [helloworld](docs/demo-helloworld.html) and [bookinfo](/docs/demo-bookinfo.html) demo applications, are stored in a
 docker image registry accessible to the Kubernetes cluster.
 By default, the latest images are hosted in the `amalgam8` docker hub image repository, but if you're
 building a different version, be sure to push the modified images and change the resource manifests accordingly.

### Sidecar Configuration <a id="sidecar-config"></a>

The Amalgam8 sidecar configuration need to change to match the fact that it is running in
 in a Kubernetes cluster. Please refer also to [sidecar configuration](/docs/sidecar-configuration.html).

 - Service instance registration is not required, pods are automatically registered by Kubernetes.
 - The `discovery_adapter` and `rules_adapter` flags should be set to `kubernetes`
 - The access URLs and token are not required (they are automatically retrieved from the pod).
  The default, in-cluster, configuration may be overridden by setting the `kubernetes_url` and
  `kubernetes_token` flags.
 - The sidecar will fetch rules and service instance information from the `default` namespace.
   This may be overridden by setting the `kubernetes_namespace` flag.
 - If the `kubernetes_pod_name` is set, the source service name and tags are automatically
   retrieved from the pod's service association and labels. Note that if a pod is mapped to
   multiple Kubernetes service, an arbitrary service identity will be selected from the list.
   Tags are automatically generated from the pod's labels by converting each label to a tag
   whose format is `key=value` (or simple `key` if value is undefined). The `key=value` format
   should be used in defininig routing rules.
 - Kubernetes service names are used directly in defining rule target services.

Commit message:

marked as experimental, added note regarding POD_NAME

_docs/4-kubernetes/0-intro.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Introduction
permalink: /docs/kubernetes-integration-intro.html
redirect_from: /docs/kubernetes-integration/
category: Kubernetes Integration
order: 0
---

> Kubernetes integration is *__experimental__* and may change. It has not been released, and thus code
>  must be compiled from the master branch for these commands to work. Additionally, one should run
>  generate_example_yaml.sh once to copy files to their expected location. This step will not
>  be required once code is made available through a release.


When deployed on [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io), Amalgam8 provides a near native experience
 by reusing native Kubernetes tools and fucntions to run and manage its control plane components.
 The [Service registration and discovery](/docs/control-plane-registry.html) functionality leverages Kubernetes
 built in kubernetes service registry and discovery, and the [Route Controller](/docs/control-plane-controller.html) uses
 Kubernetes [Third Party Resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/thirdpartyresources/)
 to store routing rules, thus enabling familiar access using `kubectl` command line.

*__Before__* beginning working through the examples and demos, pelase confirm all container images for the control plane,
 [helloworld](docs/demo-helloworld.html) and [bookinfo](/docs/demo-bookinfo.html) demo applications, are stored in a
 docker image registry accessible to the Kubernetes cluster.
 By default, the latest images are hosted in the `amalgam8` docker hub image repository, but if you're
 building a different version, be sure to push the modified images and change the resource manifests accordingly.

### Sidecar Configuration <a id="sidecar-config"></a>

The Amalgam8 sidecar configuration need to change to match the fact that it is running in
 in a Kubernetes cluster. Please refer also to [sidecar configuration](/docs/sidecar-configuration.html).

 - Service instance registration is not required, pods are automatically registered by Kubernetes.
 - The `discovery_adapter` and `rules_adapter` flags should be set to `kubernetes`
 - The access URLs and token are not required (they are automatically retrieved from the pod).
  The default, in-cluster, configuration may be overridden by setting the `kubernetes_url` and
  `kubernetes_token` flags.
 - The sidecar will fetch rules and service instance information from the `default` namespace.
   This may be overridden by setting the `kubernetes_namespace` flag.
 - Service name and labels may be specified using the `service` flag, as before. Alternately,
   if the `kubernetes_pod_name` is set, the source service name and tags are automatically
   retrieved from the pod's service association and labels. Note that if a pod is mapped to
   multiple Kubernetes service, an arbitrary service identity will be selected from the list.
   Tags are automatically generated from the pod's labels by converting each label to a tag
   whose format is `key=value` (or simple `key` if value is undefined). The `key=value` format
   should be used in defininig routing rules.
 - Kubernetes service names are used directly in defining rule target services.
