_docs/4-kubernetes/2-helloworld.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: HelloWorld!
permalink: /docs/kubernetes-integration-helloworld.html
redirect_from: /docs/kubernetes-integration/helloworld
category: Kubernetes Integration
order: 3
---

Please refer to [helloworld](/docs/demo-helloworld.html) for a detailed description of the
 application and use case.

## Running the Hello World! Sample Application

1. Bring up the [control plane](/docs/kubernetes-integration-control-plane.html#deploy)

1. Bring up the application containers:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl create -f examples/k8s-helloworld.yaml
   ```

   The above command automatically launches the gateway service and two instances of each version of `helloworld`.
   Confirm that all services and pods are correctly defined and running:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get services
   NAME         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
   gateway      10.97.119.35   <nodes>       6379:32000/TCP   6m
   helloworld   None           <none>        5000/TCP         6m
   ```

   and

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get pods
   NAME                  READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   gateway-4whg2         1/1       Running   0          3m
   helloworld-v1-991qk   1/1       Running   0          3m
   helloworld-v1-9dwkp   1/1       Running   0          3m
   helloworld-v2-8dd8g   1/1       Running   0          3m
   helloworld-v2-jbh8l   1/1       Running   0          3m
   rules-97v01           1/1       Running   0          1h
   ```

1. Expose the Gateway service

   Determine the node on which the `gateway` pod runs, and use the node's IP address as the external gateway IP.

   ```bash
   $ kubectl describe pod gateway-4whg2 | grep Node
   Node:		node4.k8s.example.com/9.147.221.77
   $ export GATEWAY_URL=9.147.221.77:32000
   ```

   Since no default route is set, access to the helloworld endpoint on the gateway, may return a response from any
   instance, and issuing the curl command multiple times should load balance amongst all deployed instances.

   ```bash
   $ for i in {1..8}; do curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/helloworld/hello; done
   Hello version: v2, container: helloworld-v2-8dd8g
   Hello version: v2, container: helloworld-v2-jbh8l
   Hello version: v1, container: helloworld-v1-991qk
   Hello version: v1, container: helloworld-v1-9dwkp
   Hello version: v2, container: helloworld-v2-8dd8g
   Hello version: v1, container: helloworld-v1-9dwkp
   Hello version: v2, container: helloworld-v2-jbh8l
   Hello version: v1, container: helloworld-v1-991qk
   ```

### Version Based Routing

1. Lets send all traffic to the v1 version of helloworld:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl create -f examples/k8s-helloworld-default-route-rules.yaml
   routingrule "set-helloworld-default-v1" created
   ```

1. We can confirm the rule is set by running the following command and confirming that `Status.state` is set to `valid`:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get routingrule
   NAME                        KIND
   set-helloworld-default-v1   RoutingRule.v1.amalgam8.io
   $ kubectl get routingrule -o json
   {
       "apiVersion": "v1",
       "items": [
           {
               "apiVersion": "amalgam8.io/v1",
               "kind": "RoutingRule",
               "metadata": {
                   "creationTimestamp": "2017-02-07T12:45:56Z",
                   "name": "set-helloworld-default-v1",
                   "namespace": "default",
                   "resourceVersion": "1720622",
                   "selfLink": "/apis/amalgam8.io/v1/namespaces/default/routingrules/set-helloworld-v1-default",
                   "uid": "5e53a321-ed33-11e6-a49c-fa163efdea7d"
               },
               "spec": {
                   "destination": "helloworld",
                   "id": "set-helloworld-default-v1",
                   "priority": 1,
                   "route": {
                       "backends": [
                           {
                               "tags": [
                                   "version=v1"
                               ]
                           }
                       ]
                   }
               },
               "status": {
                   "state": "valid"
               }
           }
       ],
       "kind": "List",
       "metadata": {},
       "resourceVersion": "",
       "selfLink": ""
   }
   ```

1. Confirm that all traffic is being directed to the v1 instance, by running the following curl command multiple times.

   ```bash
   $ for i in {1..4} do curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/helloworld/hello; done
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-991qk
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-991qk
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-9dwkp
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-9dwkp
   ```

   You can see that the traffic is continually routed between the v1 instances only, in a random fashion.

1. Next, we will split traffic between helloworld v2 (25%) and v1 (the remaining 75%)

   Run the following command to send 25% of the traffic to helloworld v2, leaving the rest (75%) on v1:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl create -f examples/k8s-helloworld-v1-v2-route-rules.yaml
   routingrule "set-helloworld-25p-v2" created
   ```

1. Run this curl command several times:

   ```bash
   curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/helloworld/hello
   ```

   You will see alternating responses from all 4 helloworld instances, where approximately 1 out of every 4 (25%) responses
   will be from a "v2" instances, and the other responses from the "v1" instances:

   ```bash
   $ for i in {1..8} do curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/helloworld/hello; done
   ```

   Note: if you use a browser instead of curl to access the service and continually refresh the page,
   it will always return the same version (v1 or v2), because a cookie is set to maintain version affinity.
   However, the browser still alternates in a random manner between instances of the specific version.

### Cleanup

1. Delete the routing rules

   ```bash
   $ kubectl delete -f examples/k8s-helloworld-default-route-rules.yaml
   routingrule "set-helloworld-v1-default" deleted
   $ kubectl delete -f examples/k8s-helloworld-v1-v2-route-rules.yaml
   routingrule "set-helloworld-25p-v2" deleted
   ```

1. Terminate the application pods

   ```bash
   $ kubectl delete -f examples/k8s-helloworld.yaml
   ```
   
1. Terminate the [control plane](/docs/kubernetes-integration-control-plane.html#cleanup)

Commit message:

mention rule priorities add v2/v1 output and fix typo

_docs/4-kubernetes/2-helloworld.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: HelloWorld!
permalink: /docs/kubernetes-integration-helloworld.html
redirect_from: /docs/kubernetes-integration/helloworld
category: Kubernetes Integration
order: 3
---

Please refer to [helloworld](/docs/demo-helloworld.html) for a detailed description of the
 application and use case.

## Running the Hello World! Sample Application

1. Bring up the [control plane](/docs/kubernetes-integration-control-plane.html#deploy)

1. Bring up the application containers:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl create -f examples/k8s-helloworld.yaml
   ```

   The above command automatically launches the gateway service and two instances of each version of `helloworld`.
   Confirm that all services and pods are correctly defined and running:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get services
   NAME         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
   gateway      10.97.119.35   <nodes>       6379:32000/TCP   6m
   helloworld   None           <none>        5000/TCP         6m
   ```

   and

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get pods
   NAME                  READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   gateway-4whg2         1/1       Running   0          3m
   helloworld-v1-991qk   1/1       Running   0          3m
   helloworld-v1-9dwkp   1/1       Running   0          3m
   helloworld-v2-8dd8g   1/1       Running   0          3m
   helloworld-v2-jbh8l   1/1       Running   0          3m
   rules-97v01           1/1       Running   0          1h
   ```

1. Expose the Gateway service

   Determine the node on which the `gateway` pod runs, and use the node's IP address as the external gateway IP.

   ```bash
   $ kubectl describe pod gateway-4whg2 | grep Node
   Node:		node4.k8s.example.com/9.147.221.77
   $ export GATEWAY_URL=9.147.221.77:32000
   ```

   Since no default route is set, access to the helloworld endpoint on the gateway, may return a response from any
   instance, and issuing the curl command multiple times should load balance amongst all deployed instances.

   ```bash
   $ for i in {1..8}; do curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/helloworld/hello; done
   Hello version: v2, container: helloworld-v2-8dd8g
   Hello version: v2, container: helloworld-v2-jbh8l
   Hello version: v1, container: helloworld-v1-991qk
   Hello version: v1, container: helloworld-v1-9dwkp
   Hello version: v2, container: helloworld-v2-8dd8g
   Hello version: v1, container: helloworld-v1-9dwkp
   Hello version: v2, container: helloworld-v2-jbh8l
   Hello version: v1, container: helloworld-v1-991qk
   ```

### Version Based Routing

1. Lets send all traffic to the v1 version of helloworld:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl create -f examples/k8s-helloworld-default-route-rules.yaml
   routingrule "set-helloworld-default-v1" created
   ```

1. We can confirm the rule is set by running the following command and confirming that `Status.state` is set to `valid`:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get routingrule
   NAME                        KIND
   set-helloworld-default-v1   RoutingRule.v1.amalgam8.io
   $ kubectl get routingrule -o json
   {
       "apiVersion": "v1",
       "items": [
           {
               "apiVersion": "amalgam8.io/v1",
               "kind": "RoutingRule",
               "metadata": {
                   "creationTimestamp": "2017-02-07T12:45:56Z",
                   "name": "set-helloworld-default-v1",
                   "namespace": "default",
                   "resourceVersion": "1720622",
                   "selfLink": "/apis/amalgam8.io/v1/namespaces/default/routingrules/set-helloworld-v1-default",
                   "uid": "5e53a321-ed33-11e6-a49c-fa163efdea7d"
               },
               "spec": {
                   "destination": "helloworld",
                   "id": "set-helloworld-default-v1",
                   "priority": 1,
                   "route": {
                       "backends": [
                           {
                               "tags": [
                                   "version=v1"
                               ]
                           }
                       ]
                   }
               },
               "status": {
                   "state": "valid"
               }
           }
       ],
       "kind": "List",
       "metadata": {},
       "resourceVersion": "",
       "selfLink": ""
   }
   ```

1. Confirm that all traffic is being directed to the v1 instance, by running the following curl command multiple times.

   ```bash
   $ for i in {1..4} do curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/helloworld/hello; done
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-991qk
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-991qk
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-9dwkp
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-9dwkp
   ```

   You can see that the traffic is continually routed between the v1 instances only, in a random fashion.

1. Next, we will split traffic between helloworld v2 (25%) and v1 (the remaining 75%)

   Run the following command to send 25% of the traffic to helloworld v2, leaving the rest (75%) on v1:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl create -f examples/k8s-helloworld-v1-v2-route-rules.yaml
   routingrule "set-helloworld-25p-v2" created
   ```

   Since both rules refer to the same URL path, the priority of rule `set-helloworld-25p-v2` is set
   higher than the priority of `set-helloworld-default-v1`, to ensure it has precedence over the default route.
   Having rules with the same priority and path results in undefined behavior.
   Refer to [rule DSL](/docs/control-plane-controller-rules-dsl.html) for a more complete discussion of rule
   syntax and semantics.

1. Run this curl command several times:

   ```bash
   curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/helloworld/hello
   ```

   You will see alternating responses from all 4 helloworld instances, where approximately 1 out of every 4 (25%) responses
   will be from a "v2" instances, and the other responses from the "v1" instances:

   ```bash
   $ for i in {1..8} do curl http://$GATEWAY_URL/helloworld/hello; done
   Hello version: version=v2, container: helloworld-v2-jbh8l
   Hello version: version=v2, container: helloworld-v2-jbh8l
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-991qk
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-9dwkp
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-9dwkp
   Hello version: version=v2, container: helloworld-v2-8dd8g
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-991qk
   Hello version: version=v1, container: helloworld-v1-9dwkp
   ```

   Note: if you use a browser instead of curl to access the service and continually refresh the page,
   it will always return the same version (v1 or v2), because a cookie is set to maintain version affinity.
   However, the browser still alternates in a random manner between instances of the specific version.

### Cleanup

1. Delete the routing rules

   ```bash
   $ kubectl delete -f examples/k8s-helloworld-default-route-rules.yaml
   routingrule "set-helloworld-default-v1" deleted
   $ kubectl delete -f examples/k8s-helloworld-v1-v2-route-rules.yaml
   routingrule "set-helloworld-25p-v2" deleted
   ```

1. Terminate the application pods

   ```bash
   $ kubectl delete -f examples/k8s-helloworld.yaml
   ```
   
1. Terminate the [control plane](/docs/kubernetes-integration-control-plane.html#cleanup)
